Now, repeat the last part about New York. You'd
have... Okay.
There's absolutely no chance of finding oil in
Long Island Sound or even as much as until 30 or 40
miles seaward of Long Island itself because the
geology of Long Island Sound area consists of 200
or 300 feet of glacial overburden that overlies
pre-Cambrian rocks. which there's no oil that's
ever been found pre-Cambrian rock. And the oil
company in their right mind would think of
drilling a well in Long Island Sound for those
reasons. And yet the people on the Connecticut and
New York shores and on the North Shore of Long
Island were quite vehement in saying they don't
want these damn oil rigs in Long Island Sound
getting in the way of their sailboats or
motorboats or spilling oil all over the place and
messing things up. And it's totally unrealistic
to expect to find oil in that area. I cite that as an
example of emotionalism rather than back to
objectivity. Do you foresee more cooperation
between, let's say, laboratories and schools and
industries now that the
desperation for new fuel sources has appeared?
Oh, I don't know. I think cooperation,
collaboration between the laboratories and
industry has always been pretty good.
Let's see whether there necessarily should be
more. I think it will continue on at least at the
same rate. You don't see then, let's say, a
proliferation of agencies involved in the ocean,
which will mean an ocean-related activity, which
will mean then... duplication of research and
research interest. Yeah, we've already had that
proliferation. And these outfits have been
messing all along, like BLM and EPA and the Marine
branch of the USGS. There are three that are now
getting in the act. We've already had the
proliferation. I hope to God it doesn't continue.
It would be even worse. You foresee then, let's
say, a new president's commission appearing.
Yes, as a matter of fact, I only foresee it, but
Senator Hollings has already been making noises
about setting one up in some of his more recent
press releases. And I reminded the staff when I saw
that that you should go back and look at the one that
came out in 1968.
Save the money for a new commission and apply it to
doing more work in oceanography. The blueprint's
there if you want to follow it. There hasn't been
that much change basically in sociology or
anything else of economics since then have
warranted a new approach or a new attack. Do you see
a changing direction in the future of research in
oceanography? Yeah, I think it's going to be
directed more toward applied research rather
than basic research, if you don't want to pin me
down with a definition or two. But right now
there's more money available for oceanographers
to solve problems on the continental shelf and
estuaries and so on than there is in the deep ocean,
because the people are tired of supporting basic
research in oceanography the last 20 years or more
and not having anything very definite to show for
it. And so Congress reacts to the wishes of their
constituents. I think any additional funding
that's going to come in oceanography in the next
few years will be in projects that are more closely
tied to solving specific problems that are a
benefit to the congressman's constituents than
just giving a blank check to go out and do what they
want to. So more applied than pure research? Yeah.
Emphasis is definitely going in, already started
going in applied research. This million and a half
dollars I mentioned before, as far as I'm
concerned, strictly 95% of that is applied
research. Do you see, let's say, more
environmental or impact studies coming forth
from oceanographers? More of that, but I think
also more getting information that will help
develop the potential wealth of the ocean.
In the academic world, do you see the breakup of
oceanography departments once more or more
consolidation towards oceanography
departments?
That depends on the institution. You can't answer
that question yes or no like, have you stopped
beating your wife? I think it depends entirely on
the philosophy of the institution. In most
institutions, I think they're away from a
breakup. They're trying to incorporate new
divisions, such as I mentioned, where the
emphasis is on applied oceanography and the
emphasis is on estuaries and shallow water. But in
this particular university, the emphasis seems
to be about breaking it up by having marine science
curricula, activities, sea grant, and that sort
of thing. Rather than trying to put it all under the
umbrella of an oceanography department, they're
trying to put all marine-related activities on
the campus under a separate umbrella. And this
isn't just A&M, but I think that philosophy is a
minority rather than a majority. This is an
example of Oregon State. was a department of
oceanography until a couple of years ago, and is
now a college of oceanography, or school of
oceanography, rather. University of Rhode
Island is a graduate school of oceanography.
University of Miami has a school of oceanography
and atmospheric sciences. So the emphasis, with
only a few exceptions, is on consolidation rather
than fragmentation. I mean, I've been making
comments about the government fragmenting and
proliferating its oceanographic agencies and
marine-oriented agencies. I mean, the same
applies to this university.
The last and final question, then. Would you want
to list people whom you would suggest had a shaking
influence on your career in oceanography and say
possibly a few words about them? who had to direct
you towards research oceanography. Well, I
already mentioned earlier, this afternoon,
people like Dr. Hess, who was one of the first
land-type geophysicists and geologists to go to
sea and get information, George Willard, Maurice
Ewing, Columbus Islin. I guess those are the main
ones.
Would you offer any explanation why that you were
attracted to oceanography and working the sea,
let's say, rather than work on the land? Yeah, I
think I mentioned that in the first few minutes,
that I found out pretty soon working on land that
the major questions such as continental drift and
things like that couldn't be answered on land. You
had to get the information from the sea, where it,
again, wasn't buried under thousands of feet of
sediment. This is for pure science. I mean,
applied science, of course. Again, when the oil
companies started going into the sea, well, I
followed them along with it. Well, does there seem
to be to you a general, let's say, description of
the older oceanographers, as people are quickly
involved in the field? They seem to have an
interest in all sorts of environmental studies.
We're struck by the interest in the air and the
ocean, for example, by Spilhaus, and the interest
in continental drift and fields of magnetism and
the ocean and you and other people. Does it seem to
be that oceanography and early environmentalist
movements seem to work hand in hand? Well, by
environment you mean, well, it carries two
connotations.
You talk about an atmospheric, a land, and a marine
environment. You know those three things. OK.
Rather than environment in the sense of an
environmental impact statement. Right. OK. I'll
go along with that if you take it in the former
rather than the latter. And I think of the people I
mentioned, including myself, tend to be more
generalists rather than specialists. Now, this
is the point being interdisciplinary. This is the
point we were leading up to, and we just didn't know
how to ask you the question to get you to say it
rather than us.